Enhance the README and add a description for deploying with OIDC (#608)
ManageIQ/manageiq-pods: manageiq-operator/README.md

This operator manages the lifecycle of ManageIQ application on a OCP4 cluster.

## Running ManageIQ under operator control.

There are five high level steps for running ManageIQ under operator control:

  + Step 1. Set up RBAC
  + Step 2. Deploy the ManageIQ Custom Resource Definition (CRD) (If it is not already running)
  + Step 3. Run The Operator
  + Step 4. Perform any optional custom configurations
  + Step 5. Run ManageIQ by creating the Custom Resource (CR)

The details of the five steps are as follows:

### Step 1. Set up RBAC

```bash 
$ oc create -f deploy/role.yaml
$ oc create -f deploy/role_binding.yaml
$ oc create -f deploy/service_account.yaml
```

### Step 2. Deploy the ManageIQ Custom Resource Definition (CRD)

> The ManageIQ CRD only needs to be running once on the cluster. If it is already running it does not need to be restarted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ManageIQ CRD needs to be defined on the cluster.
```

To determine if it is already available execute command:

```bash
$ oc get crds | grep manageiqs.manageiq.org
```

If it is not already available it can be deployed with command:

```bash
$ oc create -f deploy/crds/manageiq.org_manageiqs_crd.yaml
```

### Step 3. Run The Operator

There are three different ways the operator can be run.

> + #### Option 1: Run the latest ManageIQ image from the registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ #### Option 1: Run the latest ManageIQ Operator image from the registry in the cluster
```

  The default in the operator.yaml is for the latest manageiq-operator image.
  So no change is required. Simply create the operator.

  ```bash
  $ oc create -f deploy/operator.yaml
  ```

> + #### Option 2: Run your own custom ManageIQ image inside the Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ #### Option 2: Run your own custom ManageIQ Operator image in the cluster
```

  1 - Build your operator image:

    ```bash

>     $ operator-sdk build docker.io/<your location>/manageiq-operator:latest

Reviewer: What do you think of `<your_username_or_organization>` instead?

    ```

  2 - Update the operator deployment yaml file with your custome image:

    ```bash
    $ sed -i 's|docker.io/manageiq/manageiq-operator:latest|docker.io/<your location>/manageiq-operator:latest|g' deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

>   3 - Push your new custom image to the registry:

Reviewer: This should probably be after Step 1 but before 2 since it's closely related to Step 1

    ```bash
    $ docker push docker.io/<your location>/manageiq-operator:latest
    ```
    
  4 - Run your custom image from the registry:

    ```bash
    $ oc create -f deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

+ #### Option 3: Run locally (on your local laptop/computer, outside of the cluster)

  ```bash
  $ operator-sdk run --local --namespace=<your namespace>
  ```

### Step 4. Perform any optional custom configurations

> *see the OpenID-Connect example below*

Reviewer: Step 4 should probably link to the "Customizing the installation" section below, not reference a specific example unless we're going to list them all.

Reviewer: I think this is the only thing outstanding.

Author: Good catch. Thank you.

### Step 5. Run ManageIQ by creating the Custom Resource (CR)

```bash
$ oc create -f deploy/crds/manageiq.org_v1alpha1_manageiq_cr.yaml
```

# Further Notes:

## Customizing the installation

ManageIQ can be run with an external Postgres or messaging server.  To do this, create the required OpenShift secret(s) with the correct parameters using the template(s) for [Postgres](templates/app/postgresql-secrets.yaml) or [messaging](/templates/app/kafka-secrets.yaml) and provide those secret names as `databaseSecret` and/or `kafkaSecret` in `manageiq.org_v1alpha1_manageiq_cr.yaml`.

If you want to use a custom TLS certificate, one can be created with:

```bash
oc create secret tls tls-secret --cert=tls.crt --key=tls.key` and setting the secret name as `tlsSecret` in `manageiq.org_v1alpha1_manageiq_cr.yaml`.
```

> ## Creating an Operator Bundle

Reviewer: Can this be above or below the `Customizing the installation` section?  It's in the middle right now and it's not related to customizing the installation.

Create the bundle image and push to an image registry

```
$ operator-sdk bundle create docker.io/example/manageiq-bundle:0.0.1 --image-builder podman --directory deploy/olm-catalog/manageiq-operator/0.0.1/ --channels alpha --default-channel alpha
$ podman push docker.io/example/manageiq-bundle:0.0.1
```

> ## Configuring the application domain name

Reviewer: This should be `###` since it's under `## Customizing the installation`

> ## ManageIQ Simple Instance Example

Reviewer: This should be `###` since it's under `## Customizing the installation`.

> ## ManageIQ Simple Instance Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring the application domain name
```

  1 - Build your operator image:

    ```bash
    $ operator-sdk build docker.io/<your_username_or_organization>/manageiq-operator:latest
    ```

  2 - Push your new custom image to the registry:

    ```bash
    $ docker push docker.io/<your_username_or_organization>/manageiq-operator:latest
    ```
    
  3 - Update the operator deployment yaml file with your custom image:

    ```bash
    $ sed -i 's|docker.io/manageiq/manageiq-operator:latest|docker.io/<your_username_or_organization>/manageiq-operator:latest|g' deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

  4 - Run your custom image from the registry:

    ```bash
    $ oc create -f deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

+ #### Option 3: Run locally (on your local laptop/computer, outside of the cluster)

  ```bash
  $ operator-sdk run --local --namespace=<your namespace>
  ```

### Step 4. Perform any optional custom configurations

*see the OpenID-Connect example below*

### Step 5. Run ManageIQ by creating the Custom Resource (CR)

```bash
$ oc create -f deploy/crds/manageiq.org_v1alpha1_manageiq_cr.yaml
```

# Further Notes:

## Customizing the installation

### Creating custom TLS secret

> ManageIQ can be run with an external Postgres or messaging server.  To do this, create the required OpenShift secret(s) with the correct parameters using the template(s) for [Postgres](templates/app/postgresql-secrets.yaml) or [messaging](/templates/app/kafka-secrets.yaml) and provide those secret names as `databaseSecret` and/or `kafkaSecret` in `manageiq.org_v1alpha1_manageiq_cr.yaml`.

Reviewer: This should not be under `Creating custom TLS secret`.  We may even want to split the postgres and kafka instructions.

If you want to use a custom TLS certificate, one can be created with:

```bash
oc create secret tls tls-secret --cert=tls.crt --key=tls.key` and setting the secret name as `tlsSecret` in `manageiq.org_v1alpha1_manageiq_cr.yaml`.
```

> ### Creating an Operator Bundle

Reviewer: This should not be under `Customizing the installation`, it's a separate thing.

This operator manages the lifecycle of ManageIQ application on a OCP4 cluster.

## Runing ManageIQ under operator control.

There are four high level steps for running ManageIQ under operator control:

>   + Step 1. Setup RBAC

Reviewer 2: `Setup` should be split into `Set up`

  + Step 2. Deploy the ManageIQ Custom Resource Definition (CRD) (If it is not already running)
  + Step 3. Run The Operator

>   + Step 4. Run MangeIQ by creating the Custom Resource (CR)

Reviewer 2: typo: `MangeIQ`

```

### Step 3. Run The Operator

There are three different ways the operator can be run.

+ #### Option 1: Run the latest ManageIQ image from the registry

  The default in the operator.yaml is for the latest manageiq-operator image.
  So no change is required. Simply create the operator.

  ```bash
  $ oc create -f deploy/operator.yaml
  ```

+ #### Option 2: Run your own custom ManageIQ image inside the Cluster

  1 - Build your operator image:

    ```bash
    $ operator-sdk build docker.io/<your location>/manageiq-operator:latest
    ```

  2 - Update the operator deployment yaml file with your custome image:

    ```bash
    $ sed -i 's|docker.io/manageiq/manageiq-operator:latest|docker.io/<your location>/manageiq-operator:latest|g' deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

  3 - Push your new custom image to the registry:

    ```bash
    $ docker push docker.io/<your location>/manageiq-operator:latest
    ```
    
  4 - Run your custom image from the registry:

    ```bash
    $ oc create -f deploy/operator.yaml
    ```

+ #### Option 3: Run locally (on your local laptop/computer, outside of the cluster)

  ```bash
  $ operator-sdk run --local --namespace=<your namespace>
  ```

> ### Step 4. Run MangeIQ by creating the Custom Resource (CR)

Reviewer 2: typo: `MangeIQ`

If you want to use a custom TLS certificate, one can be created with:

```bash
oc create secret tls tls-secret --cert=tls.crt --key=tls.key` and setting the secret name as `tlsSecret` in `manageiq.org_v1alpha1_manageiq_cr.yaml`.
```

## Creating an Operator Bundle

Create the bundle image and push to an image registry

```
$ operator-sdk bundle create docker.io/example/manageiq-bundle:0.0.1 --image-builder podman --directory deploy/olm-catalog/manageiq-operator/0.0.1/ --channels alpha --default-channel alpha
$ podman push docker.io/example/manageiq-bundle:0.0.1
```
## ManageIQ Simple Instance Example

Modify `deploy/crds/manageiq.org_v1alpha1_manageiq_cr.yaml` as follows:

**Note:** The domain here will work for a Code Ready Containers cluster. Change it to one that will work for your environment.
Additional parameters are available and documented in the Custom Resource Definition

```yaml
apiVersion: manageiq.org/v1alpha1
kind: ManageIQ
metadata:
  name: miq
spec:
  applicationDomain: "miqproject.apps-crc.testing"
```

## ManageIQ for OpenID-Connect Authentication Instance Example

> To run ManageIQ with OpenID-Connect Authentication, replace `Step 4.` from above with the following steps.

Reviewer 3: This is a bit confusing,  the Replace step ....  4 (and 4c) are the same,  maybe make those say Step 5.  then add 4 for OpenID as (optional) with a and b there.

Author: OK. I'll try to improve this.

For this example we tested with Keycloak version 11.0

+ Step 4a. Create a secret containing the OpenID-Connect's `Client ID` and `Client Secret`
+ Step 4b. Modify the Custom Resource (CR) .yaml file to identify your OpenID-Connect provider URL and the secret just created.

> + Step 4c. Run MangeIQ by creating the Custom Resource (CR)

Reviewer 2: typo: `MangeIQ`

The details of these two steps are as follows:

### Step 4a. Create a secret containing the OpenID-Connect's `Client ID` and `Client Secret`

You pick the name for `<name of your openshift client secret>`

> The value for `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` come from your Keycloak client definition.

Reviewer 3: The values for ...

  applicationDomain: "miqproject.apps-crc.testing"
```

> ## Configuring OpenID-Connect Authentication

Reviewer: This should be `###` since it's under `## Customizing the installation`

>   applicationDomain: "miqproject.apps-crc.testing"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  applicationDomain: "<your_project_name>.apps-crc.testing"
```

```

> ## ManageIQ for OpenID-Connect Authentication Instance Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring OpenID-Connect Authentication
```

To run ManageIQ with OpenID-Connect Authentication, include these steps at **Step 4. Perform any optional custom configurations** from above.

For this example we tested with Keycloak version 11.0

> + Step 4a. Create a secret containing the OpenID-Connect's `Client ID` and `Client Secret`

Reviewer: Do we need a summary if there are only 2 steps?

+ Step 4b. Modify the Custom Resource (CR) .yaml file to identify your OpenID-Connect provider URL and the secret just created.

The details of these two steps are as follows:

> #### Step 4a. Create a secret containing the OpenID-Connect's `Client ID` and `Client Secret`

Reviewer: I'd probably call this "Step 1" and "Step 2" or just a bulleted list.

You pick the name for `<name of your openshift client secret>`
The values for `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` come from your Keycloak client definition.

```bash
$ oc create secret generic <name of your openshift client secret>  \
  --from-literal=CLIENT_ID=<your Keycloak client ID>  \
  --from-literal=CLIENT_SECRET=<your Keycloak client secret>
```

#### Step 4b. Modify the Custom Resource (CR) .yaml file to identify your OpenID-Connect provider URL and the secret just created.

Modify `deploy/crds/manageiq.org_v1alpha1_manageiq_cr.yaml` as follows:

**Note:** The domain here will work for a Code Ready Containers cluster. Change it to one that will work for your environment.
Additional parameters are available and documented in the Custom Resource Definition

```yaml
apiVersion: manageiq.org/v1alpha1
kind: ManageIQ
metadata:
  name: miq
spec:

>   applicationDomain: "miqproject.apps-crc.testing"

Reviewer: The applicationDomain should probably be removed from here since it has its own section.

Author: I would rather leave it as a complete stand alone example of what the yaml could look like for an OIDC configuration.

Author: I'll remove the repeat of the note but would like this to stand as a complete example.

Reviewer: Is `applicationDomain` required to make OIDC work?

Author: > Is `applicationDomain` required to make OIDC work?

It was in the example @abellotti gave me to use as a template for mine, so I assume it is.

Reviewer: @abellotti Can you help clarify?

Reviewer 3: Yes, applicationDomain is used for configuring OIDC and others like SAML.  The apache configuration for mod_auth_openidc needs parameters like the ServerName of the app as well as the redirect URI that instructs the IDP on where to redirect to in the application after a successful authentication.

Reviewer: Okay, then lets keep it here.

  name: miq
spec:
  applicationDomain: "miqproject.apps-crc.testing"
  httpdAuthenticationType: openid-connect

>   oidcProviderURL: https://<your keycloak FQDN>/auth/realms/<your Keycloak client name>/.well-known/openid-configuration

Reviewer 3: `<your Keycloak client name>` should be `<your keycloak Realm>`

Author: Ah yes! Of course. Good catch!

  oidcClientSecret: <name of your openshift client secret> 
```

> ### Step 4c. Run MangeIQ by creating the Custom Resource (CR)

Reviewer 2: typo: `MangeIQ`
